Side Effects and Mutable Side Effects (#1504)
temporalio/documentation: docs/app-dev-context/side-effects.md

---
id: side-effects

> title: Side Effects

Reviewer: Should we combine this file with `\concepts\what-is-a-side-effect` and then use the one file both here and in the Glossary?

description: Side Effects are a method of execution to produce nondeterministic code.
sidebar_label: Side Effects
tags:
  - guide-context
---

> A Side Effect is a method of execution to produce nondeterministic code; such as, generating a UUID or a random number.
> By implementing Side Effect into your Workflow Execution, you can execute the provided function once and records its result into the Workflow Execution [Event History](../concepts/what-is-an-event-history).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Side Effect is a method of execution to produce nondeterministic code, such as generating a UUID or a random number.
By implementing a Side Effect in your Workflow Execution, you can execute the provided function once and record its result into the Workflow Execution [Event History](/workflows/#event-history).
```
